---
title: Database policy
permalink: /Database_policy/
---

We are often asked where the NMR record should/will be stored. Whether
the Inititiative should have NMR record servers.

One of the rule is to enforce "openness", i.e. rules that will make data
publickly avaiable and avoid that journal editors or other provider of
scientific information limit access to the data provided by the
community through publicaion and sharing data by funding agency policy.

If journal ask for data to be available, the NMR records may be
deposited on permanent storage such as Zenodo or Figshare (these two are
considered by Magn. Reson. in Chem.) cheminfo.org, c6h6.org, etc. One
mandatory feature is to provide stability using DOI, etc. and direct
electronic accesy to the data (not passage thrgouh confirmatio pages).

But there is another tendency which is for the universities to propose
(and, in some case, impose) long-term storage for the data of their
researchers. (Remember that for academic work, the University is the
owner of the data - not the principal investigator - or the researchers
themselves!) This trend it probably the consequence of funding agencies
requesting scientific data to be made available. In this context our job
is essential because we want to avoid NMR spectra to be stored without
the precious assignment data. Our task is to set the “standard” for
"good" NMR records (i.e. NMReDATA compliant).

I think that we can support certain initiative, in particular if they
propose a unique adn free service such as cheminfo.org / c6h6.org. But
they have to provide details documentation/demo/tutorials etc. so that
we can inform the memebers of the Initiative on what can be done with
these tools. We will list the database on a dedicated wiki page and
compare them.

Otherwise, we will not propose any “preferered" any specific “central”
NMR database - we should probably remain neutral. Siversity is probably
better than a given preferred choice. What we can do is to support that
that all (or the largest possible part) of the data are as open as
possible (with tools to facilitate harvesting, propose web api, etc.) so
that different providers can build their own base and services.

Our job will be to certify that the data fulfil the format so that
compatibility among database/tools/software is the best possible. One
important aspect of our (future) work is to organize how data are not
uselessly duplicated or files larger than necessary by a good use of
links to original data. We may provide a “phone book” of long-term
storage of NMR data/spectra so that the disappearance of one platform
does not cause problems correcting broken links others. (To be
developed.)