---
title: WR abstract
permalink: /WR_abstract/
---

Structure elucidation of organic natural products is a complex task
mainly performed using spectroscopic methods. Among the techniques
applied, NMR-spectroscopy plays a central role giving a detailed insight
into constitution, configuration and conformation of the unknown
compound. Despite the tremendous progress made in tailoring
sophisticated pulse techniques to solve structural problems, many
natural products have been published showing a wrong structure proposal
leading to incorrect reference material for subsequent conclusions with
the effect of making this erroneous knowledge base statistically more
significant. A large number of comprehensive review articles \[1,2\]
describes the actual situation in detail. From this analysis the
necessity of massive software application during every step of the
process of structure elucidation can be derived. The automatic
peer-reviewing of some 700,000 C13-NMR spectra mainly taken from the
public domain literature has revealed a significant number of wrong
structure proposals and/or wrong signal assignments \[3\]. Subsequent
application of a structure generator program based on the carbon-NMR
data has created reasonable alternatives - in many cases in full
agreement with an already known structure revision. Examples will be
given showing the immediate need to change the workflow of structure
elucidation along the line from spectrum interpretation to
peer-reviewing of manuscripts \[4,5,6\].

\[1\] Nicolaou KC, Snyder SA. Chasing molecules that were never there:
misassigned natural products and the role of chemical synthesis in
modern structure elucidation. Angew Chem Int Ed 2005; 44:1012-1044

\[2\] McAlpine JB, Chen SN, Kutateladze A, MacMillan JB, Appendino G,
Barison A, Beniddir MA, Biavatti MW, Bluml S, Boufridi A, Butler MS,
Capon RJ, Choi YH, Coppage D, Crews P, Crimmins MT, Csete M, Dewapriya
P, Egan JM, Garson MJ, Genta-Jouve G, Gerwick WH, Gross H, Harper MK,
Hermanto P, Hook JM, Hunter L, Jeannerat D, Ji NY, Johnson TA, Kingston
DGI, Koshino H, Lee HW, Lewin G, Li J, Linington RG, Liu M, McPhail KL,
Molinski TF, Moore BS, Nam JW, Neupane RP, Niemitz M, Nuzillard JM,
Oberlies NH, Ocampos FMM, Pan G, Quinn RJ, Reddy DS, Renault JH,
Rivera-Ch√°vez J, Robien W, Saunders CM, Schmidt TJ, Seger C, Shen B,
Steinbeck C, Stuppner H, Sturm S, Taglialatela-Scafati O, Tantillo DJ,
Verpoorte R, Wang BG, Williams CM, Williams PG, Wist J, Yue JM, Zhang C,
Xu Z, Simmler C, Lankin DC, Bisson J, Pauli GF. The value of universally
available raw NMR data for transparency, reproducibility, and integrity
in natural product research. Nat Prod Rep 2019; 36:35-107

\[3\] Robien W. A Critical Evaluation of the Quality of Published 13C
NMR Data in Natural Product Chemistry Progress in the Chemistry of
Organic Natural Products, eds. Kinghorn AD, Falk H, Gibbons S, Kobayashi
JI 2017; 105:137-215

\[4\] Robien W. Computer-assisted peer reviewing of spectral data: The
CSEARCH protocol. Monatsh Chem 2019; 150, 927-932
<https://doi.org/10.1007/s00706-019-02407-5>

\[5\] <https://nmrpredict.orc.univie.ac.at/c13robot/robot.php>

\[6\] <https://nmrpredict.orc.univie.ac.at/similar/eval.php>